# Python Week 1 - Summary and Learning Objectives

## LOs from Day Zero

### Back To The Beginning

* Use PEP 8 as a reference for how to write your code
* print messages to the console terminal
* Use # and """ (or ''') to write code comments

### Number Data Type

* Explain the most common types of numbers in Python
* Evaluate arithmetic expressions that include familiar operators and **, // and %
* Predict when an arithmetic expression will throw an error

### String Data Type

* Write strings using the correct syntax
* Use len() to obtain a count of the number of characters in a string
* Refer to one or more characters in a string
* Concatenate strings together

### Variables

* Explain duck typing

* Predict when errors will be thrown when using variables and expressions

* Explain the meaning of `None` in Python

BONUS: know what the `NoneType` is

### Boolean Data Type

* Predict the evaluation of expressions that use the boolean operations of `and`, `or` and `not`
* Explain how Python handles non-Boolean objects in conditional statements

BONUS: know that the boolean constants `True` and `False` are actually subclassed `int` values; `True == 1 and False == 0`

### Comparison Operators

* understand that conditionals in Python return boolean values
* understand what the operators `>`,`<`, `>=`, `<=`, `==`, and `!=` do
* explain how to short-circuit conditional expressions

BONUS: understand the simple and complete forms of the common Python idiom that uses the boolean short curcuit to effectively provide a ternery operator:
```py
# simple form, result is y if x is truthy, else z - works if y is always truthy
result = x and y or z

# 'safe' form, protected against y being falsey
result = (x and [y] or [z])[0]
```

### Identity vs. Equality

* Explain the difference between `==` and `is`
* Explain when `not` will throw an exception  # this is not explained

BONUS:
* understand that the `==` operator compares compatible values, or returns `False`
* understand that the `is` operator compares object references for the identity of their referenced objects

BONUS: understand that the dunder method `__eq__` is used to define how user-defined classes will behave when compared with `==`, and in the absence of this dunder method the `==` comparison uses the `is` comparison.

### If Statements

* know how to write an `if` statement in Python, and what the `elif` and `else` blocks do.

### While Statements

Understand the syntax for a Python `while` loop:
```py
while condition:
  do_something()
```
understand what `break` and `continue` do in the context of a `while` loop

### Try/Except Statements

* Write a `try` statement to catch and handle exceptions in Python
* Handle different types of errors
* Use `hasattr` to prevent an error from occurring

BONUS:

* know what the syntax for `try`, `except`, and `finally` blocks are
* understand that Exceptions are objects that belong to a class hierarchy
* know how to catch and examine an Exception, and how to construct and raise a simple one.

BONUS: see also W17D4/src/why_does_pythons_for_have_an_else.py for some example code

### pass

* understand what the Python `pass` statement is for, and when to use it

### NoneType Data Type

* understand what `None` and the `NoneType` type are in Python

### Functions

* Describe how to define a function in Python
* Demonstrate how to invoke a function
* Write a function which accepts parameters and returns a value

## LOs from Day One

* There is NO Day 1!

## LOs from Day Two

### Formatting Strings

* Generate formatted output using join and format

BONUS: understand how to generate formatted output

### Getting Input From The Command Line

* know how to use the `input()` function to get responses from a CLI user

### Scripts Vs. Programs

* Explain the difference between scripts and programs (size, mostly)
* Recall common use cases for Python
  * Python can be used to do pretty much any programming task, and is
  * related to our a/A work, A Python _Back End_ can generate a REST or GraphQL API for a _Front End_ application.
  * Python web frameworks (like Flask and Django) can also render HTML, CSS and JavaScript

### Structured Data

* Define _sequence_, _collection_ and _iterable_
* Explain _immutable_

BONUS: Know which built-in classes are _immutable_ and which are _mutable_.

### Built-in Data Types

* Be able to declare a list, tuple, range, dictionary and set in Python

### Built-in Functions

* Use functions with iterables filter, map, sorted, enumerate, zip
* Analyze iterables using len, max, min, sum, any, all
* Work with dictionaries using dir
* Work with sets using operators &, |, -, ^

BONUS: Know how to find the table at the beginning of Chapter 2 in the _Python Standard Library_ documentation, where there are links to all of the built-in functions.

### `for` Statements

* understand the one-and-only syntax for a Python `for` loop:

```py
for item in iterable:
  # do something with the item
  print(item)
```

* understand what `break` and `continue` do in the context of a `for` loop

BONUS: know that a `for` loop in Python has an `else` clause

DOUBLE BONUS: understand why (see W17D4/src/why_does_pythons_for_have_an_else.py)

### More On Functions (and Methods!)

When ordering arguments within a function or function call, arguments need to occur in a particular order:

  (1) formal positional arguments

  (2) `*args`

  (3) Keyword arguments with default values

  (4) `**kwargs`

You have discovered that Python keeps track of extra arguments and will provide them to your function.

* The parameter that starts with `*` will receive a tuple of values that are the extra positional parameters
* The parameter that starts with `**` will receive a dictionary of values that are the extra keyword parameters

BONUS: `*args` and `**kwargs` are often used when wrapping functions or methods.

### Importing in Python

* Define _module_ in Python
* Use import to load a built-in module
* Understand the relationship between _packages_, _modules_ and _submodules_
* Follow common best practices for importing modules

*BONUS:* Know what these three import syntaxes do:

* `import <module> [as <identifier>]`: imports the `<module>` namespace into _this_ module's namespace, using the `<module>` name or an alternate `<identifier>`.  This import method is generally safe from name collisions, as the imported module's identifiers are referenced as `<module>.<identifier>`

* `from <module> import <identifier> [as <identifier>] [, <identifier> [as <identifier>]]*` imports one or more names from `<module>` into _this_ module's namespace, using original or alternate names.  This method only imports the identifiers that the code in this module needs to use.

* `from <module> import *`: imports all names from the `<module>` namespace into _this_ namespace.*

\* This import method is generally discouraged, and is only a 'good' idea under _*very specific circumstances*_, because it effectively joins _this_ namespace to the `<module>` namespace.  One practical use-case for this form of import is exploring the imported module's code features (like ORM models) in the REPL.

* know what a Python _module_ is, and what a _package_ is.
* Know what the file-system equivalents of these Python concepts are.

### Watching Out For Python 2

* Identify Python 2.7 in code examples found online
* Understand how to translate print from Python 2.7 to Python 3.8

BONUS: Know the big things that changed from Python 2 to Python 3:
* `print` is now a function, was a statement
* the `str` type is now a unicode string, was an ASCII (8-bit) string
* all classes are derived from `object`  (also the case in later versions of Python 2)

## LOs from Day Three

### Classes in Python

* how to use the class keyword to define a class
* how to name classes
* how to create instances from classes
* how to initialize classes with the "dunder method" `__init__()`
* how to use the "dunder class variable" `__slots__` to reserve memory for instance variables
* how to make string representations of classes using the "dunder method" `__repr__()` for use by print()  (`__str__()` is probably preferred here)
* how to declare instance methods for a class

### Inheritance in Python

* Use parentheses after the class name to specify the parent class
* Use the super() method to access methods on the parent class

BONUS: Python supports _multiple inheritance_, so more than one parent class can appear in the class declaration - these should be separated by commas.

### Properties in Python

* You create the getter property by decorating a method with @property.
* You create the setter property by decorating a corresponding method with the decorator `@«getter_method_name».setter`.

BONUS: You may also define a `deleter` property and a `docstring` for your property if desired - for more information see the `property()` class documentation linked from the _BUILT-IN-FUNCTIONS_ table at the start of Chapter 2 in the _Python Standard Library_

### List Comprehensions

* know what a list comprehension is
* know what a comprehension is in general (`set` and `dict`ionary comprehensions as well)
* recognize the simple _generator_ syntax (looks like a comprehension in parentheses rather than braces)

## LOs from Day Four

(no new material - study and practice!)

## LOs from Day Five

(no new material - study and practice!)

## Summary Review Materials

### The `pass` keyword

Because Python's code blocks are noted by indentation, an empty code block is a problem for the language parser.  The solution is to use the place-holder keyword, `pass`:
```python
def i_am_definitely_going_to_code_something_here_later(*args, **kwargs):
  pass

# without the pass keyword the class statement below would trigger an IndentationError
class SomeClass(SomeParent):
  '''a docstring''' # a docstring serves the same purpose as 'pass' ...

# ... so this comment and the statement below will not raise an IndentationError
x = 10
```

BONUS: There is another Python "do nothing" construct, the elipsis (`...`)  According to the docs, the elipsis is a even more generic placeholder than `pass`, so you can use it in the same way as `pass` if you think it looks cool - but other developers may be confused.

### Classes in Python

"Understand what a `class` in Python is" : a class in Python is a user-defined datatype.  The functions associated with a class are called _methods_, and are distinguished from regular functions by having a first parameter that provides context, conventionally (always) named `self`.  (user-defined) Classes are by convention named with `TitleCase`; class attributes are named using `snake_case`.  Many built-in classes have lowercase names, like `range` and `property`  The commonality is that an instance of a class is *always* created by invoking the class name itself: `x = MyClass(...)` or `y = property(...)` or `for i in range(...)`.

Most of the magic of Python is conjured via the use of various "dunder" (for double-underscore) features of classes.  The most interesting ones for immediate gratification are:

#### dunder methods (a few common ones)

* `__init__`: this method initializes a new instance of a class (an object).  This method roughly corresponds to a `constructor` method in JavaScript.
* `__str__`: this method defines how the object can be represented as a string.
* `__repr__`: this method also defines how an object can be rendered as a string - by convention, `__str__` returns a human-friendly representation of the object, whereas `__repr__` returns (ideally) a string that if executed by the Python interpreter would recreate the object.
* `__eq__`: this method determines how the `==` operator will compare an object of the class to some other object - due to duck typing, `other` might or might not be "the same type" as `self`.
NOTE: If this operator is not defined and your class is not derived from a class with defined equivalence symantics, `==` invokes `is` and returns object identity.

#### dunder attributes (a few common ones)

* `__dict__`: every object (and classes _are_objects!) has a `__dict__` attribute that contains all of the regular instance variables, whether they are data (attributes) or code (methods).
* `__slots__`: this class variable (which should be a list of strings) can be used to instruct the interpreter to pre-allocate space for the corresponding attribute names when the object is created.  Practially, this is mostly of interest to systems that are making a lot of objects at the same time.
* `__class__`: yes, the class of an object is availble as an attribute.  Classes have `__name__` attributes, so to get the name of an object's class as a string, reference `obj.__class__.__name__`

#### More on Classes

Methods are declared using the `def` keyword, similar to regular functions.  The only difference is that a method is embedded in a class, and the first parameter should always be `self`.

EXCEPTION: methods decorated with `@classmethod` or `@staticmethod` _decorators_ have different rules regarding their expected parameters - the first parameter to a class method is the class itself (usually styled as `cls` or `klass`, since `class` is a Python keyword), while a static method does not constrain its parameter list.

A Python _*decorator*_ is an inline function that is introduced with an at-sign (`@`) and that immediately preceeds a function or method in code.  A decorator is like a closure, in that it wraps a function object and modifies its behavior.

The decorator introduced with this week's material is `@property`, which constructs a property object (instance of the `property` class) and assigns it to the same name as the method that immediately follows the decorator.  A property defined in this way consists of a (required) `getter` method, and optional `setter`, `deleter` methods and docstring attribute.  Properties allow you to read, write and remove "virtual" attributes of your object in a syntactically simple way, as if they were regular instance attributes.

Python classes have no "private" or "protected" member variables, same as JavaScript.  The convention in Python code is to name implementation methods and attributes with a leading underscore, like `_count = 0` and `def _increment_counter(self):`.  You will generally not read, write or call these non-public members. (but they can be inspected!)

## Structured Exception Handling in Python

One of the things that sets Python apart from other languages is the aggressive use of the built in structured exception handling mechanism (SEH).  SEH in Python depends on a hierarchy of classes derived from `BaseException`, and the syntax of the `try` block, which must include at least one `except` block, and may include a `finally` block.

Developers are free to derive their own classes of exceptions, generally inheriting from the `Exception` class.  A custom exception can be initialized and raised via the `raise` statement.

For an example of exception handling, see W17D4/src/why_does_pythons_for_have_an_else.py
