## Review of Week 2 Day 4 Learning Objectives

### 1. Identify the difference between const, let, and var declarations
### 2. Explain the difference between const, let, and var declarations

```js
var a = "a";
```
 * `var` is the historical keyword used for variable declaration.
 * `var` declares variables in function scope, or global scope if not inside a function.
 * We consider `var` to be _deprecated_ and it is never used in this course.

```js
let b = "b";
```

* `let` is the keyword we use most often for variable declaration.
* `let` declares variables in block scope.
* variables declared with `let` are re-assignable.

```js
const c = "c";
```

* `const` is a specialized form of `let` that can only be used to **initialize** a variable.
*  Except when it is declared, you cannot assign to a `const` variable.
*  `const` scopes variables the same way that `let` does.

### 3. Predict the evaluation of code that utilizes function scope, block scope, lexical scope, and scope chaining


Consider this `run` function, inside which `foo` and `bar` have `function scope`. `i` and `baz` are scoped to the block expression.

```js
// function and block scope in this example
function run() {
  var foo = "Foo";
  let bar = "Bar";

  console.log(foo, bar);

  {
    console.log(foo);
    let baz = "Bazz";
    console.log(baz);
  }

  console.log(baz); // ReferenceError
}

run();
```

Notice that referencing `baz` from outside it's block results in JavaScript throwing a ReferenceError.

---

Consider this `run` function, inside of which `foo` has `function scope`.

```js
function run() {
  console.log(foo); // undefined
  var foo = "Foo";
  console.log(foo); // Foo
}

run();
```


---

Consider this `func1` function and it's nested scopes.


```js

// global scope
function func1(arg1) {
  // func1 scope

  return function func2(arg2) {
    // func2 scope

    return function func3(arg3) {
      // func3 scope

      console.log(arg1, arg2, arg3);
    }
  }
}
```

### 6. Implement a closure and explain how the closure effects scope

```js
const adder = (arg1) => {
  return (arg2) => {
    return arg1 + arg2;
  }
};

const func2 = adder(2);
const result = func2(2);
console.log(result); // => 4;
```



```js
function 
