# Python Day 3

## More on Comprehensions

In Python, a comprehension is "a set of looping and filtering instructions".  From the _Python Language Reference_, p73:

> For constructing a list, a set or a dictionary Python provides special syntax called “displays”, each of them in two flavors:

> • either the container contents are listed explicitly, or

> • they are computed via a set of looping and filtering instructions, called a _comprehension_.

Comprehensions can be used anywhere a corresponding list, dictionary or set could be used.

```python
old_list = range(20)

# a list comprehension
new_list = [i * 4 for i in old_list if i % 2]
# [4, 12, 20, 28, 36, 44, 52, 60, 68, 76]

# a set comprehension
{suit.title() for suit in ('hearts', 'spades', 'diamonds', 'clubs')}
# {'Diamonds', 'Spades', 'Hearts', 'Clubs'}

# a dictionary comprehension - map names to the number of vowels in them...
{name: len(list(filter(lambda letter: letter in 'aeiou',name.lower())))
  for name in ('gordon', 'DAVID', 'walter', 'josephina', 'Ariadne') }
# 'gordon': 2, 'DAVID': 2, 'walter': 2, 'josephina': 4, 'Ariadne': 4}
```

List comprehensions generate an ordered list of elements; set and dict comprehensions generate a list of keys and key:value pairs, respectively.

Placing the code that would create a list comprehension between parentheses rather than braces creates a _*generator*_ which is a code construct that when iterated over yields the same values as would be present in the corresponding list, were it created.  Because a generator does not need to be evaluated until it is called, there is no separate storage required for the returned values.

## More on Slices

ranges and slices are related concepts in Python.  From the _Python Language Reference_ glossary:

>  slice - An object usually containing a portion of a sequence. A slice is created using the subscript notation, [] with colons between numbers when several are given, such as in variable_name[1:3:5]. The bracket (subscript) notation uses slice objects internally.

Slices are created whenever a sequence is indexed with an expression that has colons in it.

```python
# copy a sequence entirely
copied = original[:]

# skip the first character
rest = original[1:]

# get everything but the last character
beginning = original[:-1]

# get every other character starting with the second one
odds = original[1::2]
```

Slicing creates a new sequence.  The construct `original[:]` will often be used to create a (shallow!) copy of `original`.

## lambda functions

In Python, a _*lambda*_ function is an anonymous function; these are often used for purposes similar to what anonymous callback functions are used for in JavaScript.  The syntax for a lambda function is `lambda <parameters>: <returned_expression>`:
```python
print(list(map(lambda x: x ** 3, range(5)))) # [0, 1, 8, 27, 64]

# consider this definition
def cubed(n):
  return n ** 3

# and this one
cubed = lambda n: n ** 3

# these are equivalent expressions; both create a function called 'cubed' that
# takes a single value and returns the cube of it.  The second form is considered "not pythonic", and is discouraged, but the code generated is the same in both cases.

```

## sorting

There are two common functions related to sequences of values that can re-order the values, `sort` and `sorted`.  `sort` is a command to re-order a sequence in place; `sorted` takes a sequence and returns a new, sorted one.  Both make use of an optional keyword, `key`.  When this parameter (usually a function) is provided, it is evaluated for each element in the sequence, and the return value is used to determine the sorting order for the result.

```python
# get some objects to sort
persons = Person.all()

# create a new list, sorted by SSN
sp_ssn = sorted(persons, key=lambda person: person.ssn)

# sort the person list in place by date of birth, reversed
persons.sort(key=lambda person: person.dob, reverse=True)
```

## logging basics

Python has a rich collection of tools to support logging.  The downside of this is that the documentation can be very difficult to parse without a way in.  Here is all you need to know to start logging effectively in Python!

Logging in Python consists of connecting sources of debugging information - a `Logger` object - to a destinations for that information - `Handler` objects.  The _handler_ has a helper object, a `Formatter`, that determines how the information is formatted.  A _formatter_ is created with a `printf` dict-style formatting string and an optional separate formatter for timestamps.  Both _logger_ objects and _handler_ objects have a filtering level associated with them - here are the logging Levels available, along with their numeric weights:

|  Level     |  Value  |
| :--------- + ------: |
|  CRITICAL  |  50     |
|  ERROR     |  40     |
|  WARNING   |  30     |
|  INFO      |  20     |
|  DEBUG     |  10     |
|  NOTSET    |   0     |

A _logger_ or _handler_ object will only pass messages at the level it is set at or higher; for instance, a _handler_ with a level of `WARNING` will pass `WARNING`, `ERROR` and `CRITICAL` messages, but will ignore `DEBUG` and `INFO` messages.

The various fields that can be added to a `Formatter` are described in the table in section 16.6.7 (_LogRecord attributes_) in the _Python Library Reference_.

At its simplest, logging in Python requires:
1. Importing the `logging` module
2. creating a `Logger` object, and setting its `Level` property
3. creating a `Handler` object, and setting its `Level` propery
4. creating a `Formatter` object, and binding it to the `Handler`
5. binding the `Handler` object to the `Logger` object

The example code below does all of these things, directing logging output to a simple StreamHandler which will log directly to the system console.  (Many other `Handler` types are available - see section 16.8 of the _Python Standard Library_)

```python
################################################################################
# configure logging - here we just log to the console
################################################################################

import logging

logger = logging.Logger(__file__)
# set the level for this logger
logger.setLevel(logging.DEBUG)

# set the level for the (console) logging handler
handler = logging.StreamHandler()
handler.setLevel(logging.DEBUG)

# define a format string for logging output
formatter = logging.Formatter("%(asctime)s "
                              "(%(filename)s:%(funcName)s:%(lineno)d) "
                              "[%(levelname)s]: %(message)s")

# attach the formatter to the handler
handler.setFormatter(formatter)
# and the handler to the logger
logger.addHandler(handler)

################################################################################
```

### Python Logging Documentation

* The API reference information is located at section 16.6 of the _Python Standard Library_.
* More narrative help is available in the _Logging HOWTO_ and _Logging Cookbook_ documents.


## Formatting Strings - ALL the Options!

### `printf` style formatting

In the previous set of notes (W17D2) we looked in some detail at the `printf` style string formatting available through the use of the `%` operator.  (`"%s, %s" % (last, first)` or `"%(last)s, %(first)s" % person.__dict__`)  Replacable expressions in the format string start with the `%` character and end with a type specifier.  In between these can come width, justification, padding and precision specifiers, as well as dictionary keys in the second form.  This approach to formatting strings is documented in section 4.7.2 in the _Python Standard Library_.  It is the original approach - very powerful, and you will see it in older code - but it has fallen from favor as it is somewhat cryptic and error-prone, especially for new users.

### `str.format()` style formatting

The `str.format()` method was introduced in Python 2.6, and there was some expectation that it would replace the older method - but this method has issues too.  The `str.format()` approach is documented in section 6.1.2-3 of the _Python Standard Library_.  Calling this method on a string with replacement parameters results in the replacement expression `{...}` with the corresponding parameter from the parameter list:
```py
>>> "The sum of 1 + 2 is {0}".format(1+2)
'The sum of 1 + 2 is 3'
```
(The _Format Specification Mini-Language_ is described starting on p100 of the _Python Standard Library_)

Section 6.1.4 of the _Python Standard Library_ (_Template strings_) provides another take on format strings in Python.

The biggest problem with this approach (besides stubborn developers!) is that properly specified format strings get a lot longer, once all of the referenced names are embedded in them.

### `f-string` formatting (aka Formatted string literals)

With the introduction of Python 3.6 a "new, new" method was introduced - *f-strings*.  Described in [PEP 498](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0498/), and documented in section 2.4.3 of the _Python Language Reference_, this approach looks (to me) a lot like string interpolation in JavaScript.  From the documentation:
> A formatted string literal or f-string is a string literal that is prefixed with 'f' or 'F'. These strings may contain replacement fields, which are expressions delimited by curly braces {}. While other string literals always have a constant value, formatted strings are really expressions evaluated at run time.
Like the backtick strings in JS, the `{...}` replacement expressions in f-strings can be arbitrarily complicated Python expressions, in addition to literals and variables.  Formatting specifiers can be added, and have a syntax similar to the specifiers in `printf` style format strings:
```py
>>> name = "Fred"
>>> f"He said his name is {name!r}."
"He said his name is 'Fred'."
>>> f"He said his name is {repr(name)}." # repr() is equivalent to !r
"He said his name is 'Fred'."
>>> width = 10
>>> precision = 4
>>> value = decimal.Decimal("12.34567")
>>> f"result: {value:{width}.{precision}}" # nested fields
'result: 12.35'
>>> today = datetime(year=2017, month=1, day=27)
>>> f"{today:%B %d, %Y}" # using date format specifier
'January 27, 2017'
>>> f"{today=:%B %d, %Y}" # using date format specifier and debugging
'today=January 27, 2017'
>>> number = 1024
>>> f"{number:#0x}" # using integer format specifier
'0x400'
>>> foo
>>> f"{
" foo =
>>> line = "The mill's closed"
>>> f"{line = }"
'line = "The mill\'s closed"'
>>> f"{line = :20}"
"line = The mill's closed "
>>> f"{line = !r:20}"
'line = "The mill\'s closed" '
```

_(So many choices!)_

## Properties!

From the _Built-in Functions_ section of the _Python Library Reference_:
> *class property*(_fget=None,fset=None,fdel=None,doc=None_)

> Return a property attribute.

> _fget_ is a function for getting an attribute value. _fset_ is a function for setting an attribute value. _fdel_ is a function for deleting an attribute value. And _doc_ creates a docstring for the attribute.

> A typical use is to define a managed attribute x:
```python
class C:
  def __init__(self):
    self._x = None

  def getx(self):
    return self._x

  def setx(self, value):
    self._x = value

  def delx(self):
    del self._x

  x = property(getx, setx, delx, "I'm the 'x' property.")
```
> If c is an instance of C, `c.x` will invoke the getter, `c.x = value` will invoke the setter and del `c.x` the deleter.
> If given, _doc_ will be the docstring of the property attribute. Otherwise, the property will copy _fget_’s docstring (if it exists). This makes it possible to create read-only properties easily using `property()` as a _decorator_:
```python
class Parrot:
  def __init__(self):
    self._voltage = 100000

  @property
  def voltage(self):
    """Get the current voltage."""
    return self._voltage
```
> The `@property` decorator turns the `voltage()` method into a “getter” for a read-only attribute with the same name, and it sets the docstring for _voltage_ to “Get the current voltage.”
> A property object has `getter`, `setter`, and `deleter` methods usable as decorators that create a copy of the property with the corresponding accessor function set to the decorated function. This is best explained with an example:
```python
class C:
  def __init__(self):
    self._x = None

  @property
  def x(self):
    """I'm the 'x' property.""" return self._x

  @x.setter
  def x(self, value):
    self._x = value

  @x.deleter
  def x(self):
    del self._x
```
> This code is exactly equivalent to the first example. Be sure to give the additional functions the same name as the original property (x in this case.)
> The returned property object also has the attributes `fget`, `fset`, and `fdel` corresponding to the constructor arguments.
> Changed in version 3.5: The docstrings of property objects are now writeable.

NOTE: "Be sure to give the additional functions the same name as the original property" - when the official documentation asserts something I have disagreed with, *one* of us is probably *wrong*.  just sayin' :D
