# A Gentle Introduction to the Python Documentation

One of the best things about the Python language is the extensive and accessible documentation.  There are 27 documents in the docs-pdf folder for version 3.8.5, many of them how-to guides that break down particular tasks and applications in great detail.  This discussion will focus on two of the documents most useful to new Python developers: _The Python Library Reference_ (`library.pdf`) and _The Python Language Reference_ (`reference.pdf`)

## The Python Library Reference (library.pdf)

This document describes in detail the various named components of the Python programming language.  The document is nicely hyperlinked, making chasing down definitions relatively painless.  It also includes a nice glossary.

### Built-In Functions (p15)

At the top of the page of Chapter Two: Built-In Functions is a table that you will want to get to know well.  There are only 69 entries in this table - as a Python developer I've used probably 50 of these with any regularity.

### Built-In Constants (p37)

This is a short chapter, but it lists several important constants that you will either use or encounter frequently.

### Built-In Types (p39)

Here you will find concise explainations for:

 * Truth Value Testing
 * Boolean Operations - and, or, not
 * Comparisons (all eight of them)
 * Numeric Types - int, float, complex
 * Iterator and Sequence Types (discussed later)
 * Set Types and Mapping Types (discussed later)

### Built-In Exceptions (p97)

Here is a full listing of all of the built-in exception types.  Mostly you will be worried about catching these, but you can also raise them.  Structured Exception Handling is a major part of how "normal" (Pythonic) Python code is written; you will become more familiar with most of these exceptions as you encounter them.

### Text Processing Services

Much of this section has been superceded by the migration of many string handling services to the Build-In string class (`str`).  Of continuing interest is the _regular expression module_ (p118) (there is also a `howto-refex.pdf` document)

### Data Types

Chapter 8 on Data Types mostly relates to modules that as a new Python developer you will have little cause to use - one exception is the `datetime` module (p185) at the beginning of the chapter - if you end up doing anything of more than basic complexity here you will also want to look at how timezones are managed in Python.

## The Python Language Reference (reference.pdf)

This document describes the inner workings of the Python language in great formal detail.  For a new developer it is less useful than the _library_ documentation; the bits (pardon the pun) that are most immediately relevant to your work are:

### Chapter 3: Data model

This chapter starts with a couple of relatively short sections on _Objects, values and types_ and _The standard type hierarchy_ - both interesting, but perhaps not critical to your understanding of what you will be doing.

The next section - _Special method names_ - deserves some attention, as this is the place where much of the syntactic magic that is Python (including duck typing) gets implemented.

These methods - referred to collectively as _dunder methods_ (for "double-underscore methods") are the way that Python determines what a `+` or `-` operator does with instances of built-in or user-defined classes, or how a container is accessed when `<container>[<key>]` is invoked.

The three most commonly encountered of these are:

* `__init__(self, ...):` analogous to a JavaScript ES6 `constructor`, technically this is an _initializer_ (as storage has already been allocated) - for most of the classes you develop you will implement this method; you often will call `super()` from within it to invoke any base class initialization.

* `__str__(self):` this method will render instances of your class to a string - generally this method is used when human-readability is the goal, as with a report.

* `__repr__(self):` this method also renders instances of your class as a string - but the expectation is that in this format the string will (if possible) be the Python code required to recreate your object, for debugging or to implement persistence.

Other interesting dunder methods:

* `__bool__(self):` determines the truthiness of an object.  Objects that do not implement this method are presumed to be `True` unless they implenment the `__len__(self):` method, in which case they are `True` if len() returns a non-zero value.

* `__len__(self)` returns the length of a container.  Useful if you have implemented your own container data structure.  Also, this function is used to determine truthiness if `__bool__(self)` is not implemented.

`__eq__(self, other):` is how user-defined classes determine what to return when they are compared with something else using the `==` operator.
