# Introduction to Python - Set and Mapping Types

Python's built-in _set_ and _dict_ types (_library_, Chapter 4, Sections 9-10) are used in nearly all significant Python code.  In older versions of Python before there was a `set` class built-in similar functionality could be accomplished by using a `dict` (mapping) object and ignoring the value part of the key:value pairs.  That said, the language is richer with a distinct `set` class for several reasons discussed below.

## sets

A `set` in Python is an unordered and possibly empty collection of hashable, unique values.  A set can be defined in several ways:
```python
suits = {'spades', 'hearts', 'clubs', 'diamonds'}
names = set(('Alice', 'Betty', 'Cherise', 'Donna'))
empty = set()
```

Sets are optimized for mathematical operations like union (`&`) and intersection (`|`); if you need the elements out of a set in a particular order you will need to call `sorted()` on your set.

`frozenset` objects are like sets, but are constrained to be immutable after creation.

## dicts (Dictionaries)

A `dict` is a stucture that maps hashable, immutable values (_keys_) to particular _values_.  Each key can appear zero or one times in the `dict` object; values can be paired with any number of keys.

Originally `dict` objects were intended to be unordered; but a side-effect of some fairly aggressive optimization it turned out that the keys would be returned from a `dict` object in the order that they were created - and that developers noticed this and started counting on the behavior, so that the Python developers finally made this behavior part of the official `dict` interface.

Keys in `dict` can be any hashable value, so the digit `1` and the string `'1'` can both be distinct keys in the same `dict` object.  (Oddly, because `True` and `False` are `bool` values that are actually subclassed from `int`, `True` _will collide_ with `1` in a `dict` or `set`, and similarly, `False` will collide with `0`)
