# Introduction to Python - Sequence Types

Python's built-in sequence types (_library_, Chapter 4, Sections 5-7) will be the backbone of most of your Python code.  Anything you have done in JavaScript with either arrays or strings will have a parallel with these types in Python.

## Iterator Types (Section 4.5)

tl:dr: An _iterator_ in Python is anything that implements the iterator interface, which is the `__iter__(self):` dunder method.  This method needs to return an _iterator_ object, which itself needs to implement two dunder methods that together comprise the _iterator protocol_ - `iterator.__iter__()` and `iterator.__next__()`.

## Sequence Types (Section 4.6)

Lists, tuples*, and ranges are all built-ins that are iteratble.  Lists and tuples are ordered sequences of values like `Array` objects in JavaScript.  Lists are _mutable_ and are delimited with square braces (`[]`); tuples are _immutable_ and are (sometimes optionally) delimited with parentheses (`()`).

_*pronounced 'toople' (rhymes with 'quadruple') or 'tupple' (rhymes with 'quintuple') - take your pick.  And don't forget to look down with scorn and/or pity on anyone who uses the other pronounciation._

```python
# a list
tt_list = ['rubber', 'baby', 'buggy', 'bumper', 0, 0, None, x, y, z]

# a tuple
test_tup = ('test', 'THIS', 'Batman!!!', math.pi, 42, 74, 0xFF)
```

Elements of both lists and tuples are accessed using the subscript operator `[]`.  In contrast to JavaScript where indexing methods reveal that the indices of arrays are the string values of the numeric indices, in Python lists and tuples are indexed with `int` objects.

`range` objects are special constructs mostly used to generate values for a `for` loop.  While a `range` operator can be iterated over - and can be converted to an equivalent list or tuple - a `range` object is actually an example of a _generator_ - a function that returns successive values from a programmatically managed sequence, rather than a physical array of data values.

```python
# a range
seven = range(7) # will generate values from zero through six
alpha = 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz'
for ch in seven:
  print(alpha[ch])
```

## Text Sequence Types (Section 4.7)

Strings (instances of the `str` class) in Python 3 are all unicode.  (UTF-8 by default)  Strings are immutable, but as in JavaScript this isn't a limitation; operations on strings return new string objects.

In many regards, strings work like other sequence types.  They have their own custom methods - you will get know this section of the documentation fairly well as you become more comfortable with Python.

Strings can be easily converted to lists, and vice-versa:
```python
letter_list = list("pumpkin soup recipe")

magic_str = ''.join(letter_list) # 'pumpkin soup recipe'
```

As you might expect, Python _str_ objects have mostly analogous methods to JavaScript strings, including:
* `find`
* `startswith`, `endswith`
* `is<something>` (a collection of methods that test the string and return a `bool`)
* `lower`, `upper` (convert the case of the string to lover or upper case, respectively)
* `lstrip`, `rstrip`, `strip` - remove leading, trailing (or both) specificed characters from a string; defaults to whitespace.
(and many more!)
