# Review of Week 3 Day 2 Learning Objectives

## Node.js lesson

1. Define NodeJS as distinct from browser based JavaScript runtimes.

JavaScript (like most programming languages) has mutltiple runtimes, each of which is a full implementation of the language and supporting libraries.  With JavaScript, the two implementations (runtimes) that we care about are V8 (used in Chrome, and also the Node.js runtime) and Spidermonkey (used in Firefox).

2. Write a program that reads in a dictionary file using node's FS API and reads a line of text from the terminal input. The program should 'spell check' by putting asterisks around every word that is NOT found in the dictionary.

```js
const readline = require('readline');
const fs = require('fs');
let dictionary = [];

const rl = readline.createInterface({
    input: process.stdin,
    output: process.stdout
});

function askQuestion() {
	rl.question('What would you like to spell check? ', (answer) => {
	    let wordsToCheck = answer.split(' ');
	    let result = [];
	    for (let i =0; i < wordsToCheck.length; i++) {
			if (dictionary.includes(wordsToCheck[i])) {
			    result.push(wordsToCheck[i]);
			} else {
			    result.push("*" + wordsToCheck[i] + "*");
			}
	    }
        rl.close();
        console.log(result.join(' '));
	});
}


fs.readFile('dictionary.txt', 'utf8', (err, data) => {
    if (err) {
        console.log(err);
        return;
    }
    console.log(data);
    dictionary = data.split('\n');
    //using callback chaining
    askQuestion();
});



```

## Git lesson

1. Use Git to initialize a repo

```bash
$ git init
```

This will create a `.git` hidden folder inside your new repository.


2. Explain the difference between Git and GitHub

_Git_ is a distributed version control system that allows us to build up patch sets and changes.

_GitHub_ is a company that provides _git_ repository hosting as well as project management features like code review, issues, wiki, etc.


3. Given 'adding to staging', 'committing', and 'pushing to remote', match attributes that apply to each.

Adding to Staging:

 * Changes are added to the current patchset
 * Changes are not yet committed
 * Changes can be reviewed with `git diff --cached`

Committing:

 * Create a commit for a set of related code changes (a patchset)
 * A git history is made up of a history of many commits
 * Use `git commit` to create a commit from all the changes that are currently in staging

Pushing to Remote:

 * Pushing the changes from your local github repository to a remote repository
 * Until changes are pushed, no other team members can see them
 * Code must be pushed to a remote in order to create a pull request

4. Use Git to clone an existing repo from GitHub

After discovering the repository url (from GitHub, Bitbucket, etc. or if someone sends you a link to their privately hosted git repository)

```bash
$ git clone <repo_url>
```
    

5. Use Git to push a local commit to a remote branch

The changes tracked by your local branch called `branch_name` can be pushed to any remote with the `git push` command.

```bash
$ git push <remote> <branch_name>
```

6. Use git to make a branch, push it to github, and make a pull request on GitHub to merge it to master

Assuming you are working on an existing project.  First create a branch

```bash
$ git checkout -b <my_branch>
```

Make your changes, add them and commit them

```bash
$ git add -p
$ git commit -m 'my awesome changes.'
```

Push your newly created branch.

```bash
$ git push origin <my_branch>
```

Then point your browser at the GitHub repository, and follow the onscreen prompts to create a pull request.

7. Given a git merge conflict, resolve it

Once you've done the mental work of correcting the conflicting errors, use `git add` and `git commit` to commit the resolved code.

8. Match the three types of git reset with appropriate descriptions of the operation.

Hard (`git reset --hard <ref>`):

 * resets destructively, changing your code back to the commit identified by ref
 * deletes any code that conflicts with the identified commit

Soft (`git reset --soft <ref>`):

 * resets non-destructively.  Resets your head back to ref.
 * Does not change your code changes or 'staged' code at all

Mixed (`git reset <ref>`):

 * Resets mostly-non-destructively.  Resets your head back to ref.
 * Staged changes are moved out of the staging area


9. Use Git reset to rollback local-only commits.

```bash
$ git reset --hard HEAD
```

10. Identify what the git rebase command does

`git rebase` allows us to rewrite the history of the current branch my changing commit contents, or adding commits to our history and replaying all the commits since that moment on top of them.  Rebase allows us to clean up mistakes in our history, or to avoid adding "merge commits" by adding the commits from another branch into our branches' history.

11. Use git diff to compare a local 'staging' branch and 'master' branch.

```bash
$ git checkout staging
$ git diff master
```

12. Use git checkout to check out a specific commit by commit id

This will leave your git repository in a "headless" state, which you cannot apply commits on top of.

```bash
$ git checkout <ref>
```

