# Review of Week 3 Day 3 Learning Objectives

1. Given a folder structure diagram, a list of 'cd (path)' commands and target files, match the paths to the target files.

Given a sample filesystem:

```bash
/
|----/usr
|--------/bin
|--------/local
|------------/bin
|----/var
|--------/log
|--------/lib
|----/home
|--------/idbentley
|------------/development
|----------------/appacademy
```

And knowing:

```bash
$ pwd
/home/idbentley
```

I can navigate to the `appacademy` directory with the command:

```bash
cd development/appacademy
```

2. Create, rename, and move folders using unix command line tools.

```bash
$ pwd
/home/idbentley/development
$ ls -a
. ..
```

Knowing that we are in an empty development directory, I want to create a new directory for my project `ChewbaccaCat`.  I know I can use the `mkdir` tool, so I try

```bash
$ mkdir ChewbaccoCat
$ ls -a
. .. ChewbaccoCat
```

Dern, typos!  I can use `mv` (i.e move) to rename a file or folder, however.

```bash
$ mv ChewbaccoCat ChewbaccaCat
$ cd ChewbaccaCat
$ pwd
/home/idbentley/development/ChewbaccaCat
$ git init
```

3. Use grep and | to count matches of a pattern in a sample text file and save result to another file.

One option using grep with the `-c` (count) opt

```bash
$ grep -c 'pattern' infile.txt > countResults.txt
```

Or we can pipe `|` the output of grep into the word count command `wc -l` to count the number of matched lines 

```bash
 $ grep "pattern" infile | wc -l > countResults.txt
```

4. Find what -c, -r, and -b flags do in grep by reading the manual.

 * `-c` stands for "count".  It will limit the output of grep to just the number of matches, not the matches themselves.
 * `-r` is unsurprisingly "recursive", and it will tell grep that it should search the contents of any directories it receives as input.
 * `-b` stands for "byte-offset" and it will tell you the line number, and position of grep's matches. 

5. Identify the difference in two different files using diff.

```bash
$ diff file1 file2
```

Easy as pie

6. Open and close nano with and without saving a file.

To open nano, we point the `nano` command at the file we wish to open

```bash
$ nano countResults.txt
```

Nano uses `Ctrl + <command>` keyboard shortcuts to utilize it's functions.

We use `Ctrl + o` to save a file - Nano will prompt you for the buffer name (Nano calls files "buffers" for historical reasons).

To exit Nano without saving, you can use `Ctrl + x`.

7. Use ‘curl’ to download a file.

```bash
$ curl https://www.google.com/robots.txt
```

If we want to save the file, we can use the the `-o` option.

```bash
$ curl https://www.google.com/robots.txt -o robit.txt
```

8. Read the variables of $PATH.

To read the current value of path, use the `echo` command

```bash
$ echo $PATH
```

The `$PATH` variable is split on `:` characters, resulting in an array of paths, which should be read from left to right.  When your OS is looking for a command to run, it will walk through this array, checking each path in turn.


9. Explain the difference between .bash_profile and .bashrc.

Bash Profile is run whenever we run a login shell.

bashrc is run for every shell

10. Create a new alias by editing the .bash_profile.

For example:

```bash
alias la='ls -a'
alias gl='git log --oneline'
```

11. Given a list of common scenarios, identify when it is appropriate and safe to use sudo, and when it is a dangerous mistake.

```bash
$ sudo rm <path>
```
Any use of sudo rm is potentially a dangerous mistake!

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install <package>
```

Install system packages is a safe and necessary use of sudo

```bash
$ sudo npm install -g mocha
```

Installing npm packages with sudo is almost always gonna mess up your env.

12. Write a shell script that greets a user by their $USER name using echo.

We write our simple script to `whoami.sh`

```bash
#!/bin/zsh
USR=`whoami`
echo "Hello " $USR
```

13. Use chmod to make a shell script executable.

Now we want to run `whoami.sh`

```bash
$ ./whoami.sh
zsh: permission denied: ./whoami.sh
$ chmod u+x whoami.sh
$ ./whoami.sh
Hello idbentley
```	
