# Week 17 Day 2

## Notes on the Ternary Operator in Python

```python
      # this is a typical usage
      z = (a and [x] or [y])[0]

      # this is also fine, as long as x will always be truthy
      z = a and x or y

      # often used like this
      string = "name%s" % (count == 1 and [''] or ['s'])[0]

      # Python's ternary operator
      somevalue = y if x else z
      # (this ^^ is not used much)
```

## Notes on the % Operator and String Formatting

```python
formatted = format_string % (tuple, of, values) # or a single value

## there are two (or three) variants of this
int_as_string = "%d" % (1546 * 452) # a single parameter - in this case, an int

three_bears = "%s, %s and %s" % ("Mommy", "Daddy", "Baby") # params in a tuple

# or the parameters can come from a dictionary...
witch_menu = "baked %(girl)s, broiled %(boy)s" % {girl: "Gretel", boy: "Handsel"}

# In fact, since every object keeps its attributes in its `__dict__` attribute...
class GamePiece():
  '''
  doctstring for the GamePiece class goes here...
  '''
  def __init__(self, name, color, material, mass_in_grams):
    '''
    initialize the new object
    '''
    self.name = name
    self.color = color
    self.material = material
    self.mass_in_grams = mass_in_grams

  def __str__(self):
    '''
    now use introspection to generate a string version of the object for a report
    '''
    return ("%(name)s: %(color)s, %(mass_in_grams)f of %(material)s" %
            self.__dict__)

  def __repr__(self):
    '''
    repr is supposed to (if possible) return a string that would be the Python
    required to construct the object
    '''
    return ("Gamepiece(name='%(name)s', color='%(color)s',"
            " material='%(material)s', mass_in_grams=%(mass_in_grams)f)") %
            self.__dict__)
```

## Review Homework for Tuesday

This material should be stuff you know by now if you've been doing the coding assignments.  Please look at the articles; we'll be revisiting them when we look over the LOs for the week.

## Review Homework for Wednesday

The homework topics for tomorrow are broken out in detail below.

### Formatted Strings

* notes on `str.join()`
* the `str.format` call
* the `%` operator (see the Notes on the % Operator section earlier in these notes for some examples)

### Getting Input

* the `input` function - displays a prompt, captures text entered on the console, returns that text as a string.  This is a synchronous function, but in other regards much like `readline` in JavaScript.

### Scripts -vs- Programs

* programs are made out of one or more scripts.  Like the difference between a boat and a ship, this is mostly a matter of perspective, although strong opinions exist here too.

### Structured Data

You should be familiar with these:

* sequences, collections & iterables
* mutable and immutable iterables
  * strings and tuples and frozen sets are immutable
  * lists and dicts and sets are mutable

Tthe point of this entry is most likely to inform you that if you mutate an iterable that you are iterating over - adding or removing `key:value` pairs in a dict, for instance - you probably won't like what will happen.  If you need to iterate over a container (a sequence or a dict or set) and produce a changed container, you will want to just make a new container and copy / modify / skip over the values in the source container.  (A little more on this below, in the section on `for` loops)

### Built-in Data Types

At this point, you should already know these terms:

* review `list`, `tuple`, `range`, `dict`, and `set`
* know what the `in` operator does with a `list`, `set` or `dict`

### Built-in Functions

* understand what the built-in functions `filter`, `map`, `sorted`, `enumerate` and `zip` do.
* understand what the aggregating functions `len`, `max`, `min`, `sum`, `any` and `all` do.
* know what the `dir` function does:  (this is from the Python documentation)

> _Without arguments, return the list of names in the current local scope. With an argument, attempt to return a list of valid attributes for that object._

* know the set operators, `&` (intersection), `|` (union), `-` (difference) and `^` (symetric difference) do.

(And of course - know how to find ALL of this information in 30 seconds or in from the _Python Standard Library_ documentation!)

### For Loops

* they iterate over iterables - while you can make them work like a C or JS `for` loop, this is considered to be not "Pythonic".

From the _Python Language Reference_ documentation, the section on "The `for` statement":
> *Note:* There is a subtlety when the sequence is being modified by the loop (this can only occur for mutable sequences, e.g. lists). An internal counter is used to keep track of which item is used next, and this is incremented on each iteration. When this counter has reached the length of the sequence the loop terminates. This means that if the suite deletes the current (or a previous) item from the sequence, the next item will be skipped (since it gets the index of the current item which has already been treated). Likewise, if the suite inserts an item in the sequence before the current item, the current item will be treated again the next time through the loop. This can lead to nasty bugs that can be avoided by making a temporary copy using a slice of the whole sequence, e.g.,
```python
for x in a[:]:
    if x < 0: a.remove(x)
```

### More On Functions

* `*args` and `**kwargs` are commonly used to capture all of the positional and keyword arguments (respectively) that are passed to a function or method.

```python
def my_function(*args, **kwargs):
  '''
  this is my docstring for this function
  args is now a list of all of the positional parameters
  kwargs is a dict containing all of the keyword parameters
  In this function, I'd need to make sure that the parameters
  passed were the correct ones
  '''

result = my_function(
  a,
  3,
  45,
  testing=False,
  prod=True,
  first_letter='a',
  another_letter='b',
  final_letter='c')

  class MyClass(SomeLibraryClass):
    def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
      super().__init__(*args, name="Gordon", **kwargs)
      # my custom initialization goes here...

```

### Importing in Python

* this section introduces several topics related to code organization
  * a _module_ in Python is a body of code that is treated as a unit - most commonly, it is a single file, although the REPL itself is a module.
  * the `import` keyword is used to bring names from external code resources into the current module.
  * as of Python 3, a _package_ is mostly synonymous with a directory, just as _modules_ are essentially files.  A package _may_ contain a file named `__init__.py`; if it does, this file should contain any initialization that the package needs to perform.
  * a _submodule_ refers to a module (or package) that is nested within a package.

* the reading suggests that developers should avoid wildcard imports.  This is generally good advice, however when testing code from the REPL developers will often execute statements like `import * from org.models` - while testing the models defined in the `org.models` module (or package) this approach makes sense; the REPL becomes an extension of the `org.models` namespace.

* the reading mentions using multiple lines for clarity on imports.  This is good advice for a large number of explicit imports - the example given is:

```python
from urllib.request import (
  HTTPDefaultErrorHandler as ErrorHandler,
  HTTPRedirectHandler as RedirectHandler,
  Request,
  pathname2url,
  url2pathname,
  urlopen,
)
```

an alternative approach where many identifiers are being imported from a namespace is to instead import the entire namespace as a unit:

```python
import urllib.request
# shortened names available by assignment...
ErrorHandler = urllib.request.HTTPDefaultErrorHandler
RedirectHandler = urllib.request.HTTPRedirectHandler
# unmangled names are available, just need to be qualified...
url = urllib.request.pathname2url(pathname)
```

### Watching Out For Python 2

* as of January 2020 Python 2 is out-of-support
* the last official release of Python 2 is Python 2.7 - it will likely be around for a while longer, as system software components are migrated to Python 3.  It should generally not be used for development.
* Python 2 was released in 2000; Python 3 was released in 2008, but many third-party libraries were not ported to Python 3 until 2015 or later.
* similar advice could be given for older versions of Python 3 (which are still supported!)  Your system may have a default version of Python 3 already installed - if you choose to not use the installed version, be sure you install your new version as an alternate version.  (it is fine to set your new version as the default for pyenv - the system won't depend on that tool)
* the biggest, most obvious changes between Python 2 and Python 3:
  * `print` is now a function call; in Python 2 it was a statement.  (The only difference syntactically is the requirement for parentheses around the invocation - Python 2 will ignore these parentheses)
  * the `str` data type in Python 3 refers to `unicode` strings.  In Python 2 this data type refered to strings of 8-bit characters.  In Python 2, unicode strings are denoted by the `u` modifier (`u'somestring'`) which is ignored in Python 3; similarly, in Python 3 bytestrings are denoted by the `b` modifier (`b'somebytes'`); Python 2 ignores this modifier.
  * Python 2 has two different "not equals" operators - `<>` and `!=` - Python 3 dropped the `<>` operator and now only uses `!=` for "not equals".
* in other regards, most aspects of these languages are very similar.

## Day 3 Lectures

There are 3 hours of lectures for Wednesday - most of these cover material you should be familiar with by now, but Carolyn's videos *are* really good - so if you want to watch all of them you really should.  But if you're crunched for time - I'm noting the ones that present new or novel information below...

## Day 3 lectures - part 1 (50 minutes)

* Lists in Python
* Mutability Of And Sorting Lists # demonstrates the `key` keyword for sorting
* Doing Math With Lists # demonstrates aggregating functions - `min`, `max`, `sum`, etc.
* Tuples In Python # shows application of tuples to destructuring
* Special Case: Single Item Tuple # short, important edge-case information

## Day 3 lectures - part 2 (50 minutes)

* Ranges in Python
* Dictionaries in Python
* More Ways To Make A Dictionary
* Sets In Python # documents the set operations for union, intersection, difference and symmetric difference
* Using Sets
* Combining Data Structures # walkthrough working with nested data structures

## Day 3 lectures - part 3 (58 minutes)

* Built-ins - All and Any
* Built-ins - Filter and Map
* Built-ins - Custom Sort # another nice introduction into customizing sorting
* Stack and Queue Overview # nice general coding demo
* Input Validation Walk-Through

# Day 3 Practices

From _Structured Data Quiz_ through _Bonus: Averages_, excluding the Guessing Game project.
